Close out:

Scrum Team Dynamics:

3 pillars of scrum

	1. Development team 

	2. Product owner

	3. Scrum master

1. Development team:

   a. this team is responsible for delivering sprint backlog stories

   b. Consists of business analyst,architects,developers and QA analyst

2. Key attributes of the development team

   a. we want them to be self organizing. No project manager is required

   b. self managing

   c. intensely collaborative

   d. autonomy regarding how to reach commitments.

3. Success criteria for development team

   a. Co-location is the key for success but, not mandatory(The team should sit together)

   b. If co-location is not possible facilitate a pseudo co-location(meeting through skype or webex)

   c. avoid moving team members,however if you want to move team members then do it at the sprint beginning or ending

      not in the mid


Second Role : Scrum Master

   a. he facilitates the team's daily work

   b. he does so by removing and resolving impediments

   c. he is responsible for the sprint velocity and burndown charts

   d. scrum master holds the team accountable for themselves

   e. they also manage some of the logistical portions of he work

Key attributes of scrum master :

   a. a servant leader without management authority over the team.

   b. if there is a development work and a documentation work,the scrum master should seal the development team 

      with the dev work and should take the documentation work.

   c. this way he is a team player

   d. facilitates creativity and empowerment

Success criteria:

   a. he is the press release manager or spokes person on behalf of the team

 
Role Product owner:

   a. they are the business voice of the team

   b. product owner knows what the business wants

   c. they communicate back and forth between devlopment team and business

   d. Accountable for outcome.

   e. sets the product vision and road map

   f. manages the product backlog and with the scrum team to create welldefined userstories

Key Attributes of product owner:

   a. they have to have strong stakeholder support 

   b. expertise in product and available to the team

   c. determines when products should be shipped

   d. he cannot be disengaged with the stakeholders

Successcriteria for product owner:

   a. Readily available to scrum team for any clarification

   b. must respect the sprint boundaries and allow the scrum methododlogy to work

