Scrum is simple to understand but difficult to master
------------------------------------------------------

1. Agile is a overarching setup of principles and methodologies,that enhances operational efficiencies.
   Scrum is a subset of agile. It enhances operational efficiencies.
   Scrum can be applied to several set of teams
   It can be applied to a 
     a. technical team
     b. IT team
     c. Business process and improvement team
     d. Financial planning and analysis team
  Really great tool for increasing operational efficiency.

2. Scrum is our favorite framework

3. Scrum is simple to understand,however it is difficult to master

4. Scrum Framework is splitup into 3 separate buckets.
   a. roles
   b. ceremonies 
   c. artifacts 

Roles of scrum:
  1. Product owner: the business representative for the team. He sets the priority amongst the team

  2. Scrum master: who is like a pseudo project manager.They facilitate the team in the development lifecycle

  3. Development team: Any body and everybody that is needed to get the development from

Ceremonies:
  
   These are your methods to success through scrum.
   
Sprint planning:
 
   1. Sprint is a short iterative time boxed sense of development effort

   2. It is of ususally 2-4 weeks time line

   3. Sprint planning is the review of business requirements,that the team is going to deliver in the current sprint

Daily Standup:

   1. Very popular and useful tool.

   2. It is conducted daily and usually 15 min long

   3. The below questions are the general question in the scrum

       a. what did you do today?

       b. what are you planning on doing tomorrow?

       c. what is the road block?

      These questions are generally for development team

   4. It increases the face to face communication in the team

   5. Intention is get to the bottom of lot of potential issues

Sprint Review:

   1. At the end of the sprint is the sprint review.

   2. Where we showcase what was accomplished within the sprint.

   3. It is kind of a demonstartion of the working piece of code

Sprint Retrospective:

   1. This is the internal meaning of sprint review.

   2. Scrum master and product owner also participate in this.

   3. Three things we discuss here 

         a. What went well?
    
         b. What did not go well?

         c. How can we improve?

Backlog refinement:

   1. This is kind of requirement solicitation(asking for requirement)

   2. This is a ongoing process

   3. We continually look at the backlog to refine and enhance the requirement to align with the client's expectation


Artifacts:

   1. These are the gauge of teams performance

      Product backlog:

        a. This is the entire,inclusive list of requirements from the product owner

        b. This is entire portfolio of work

        c. This is quantity over quality.

        d. This is a one stop place to check what the business wants.

        e. It can grow, it can contract ....It is a living document.

      Sprint Backlog:

        a. This is a subset of product backlog.

        b. This shows what the team is working on within a given sprint.

      Burndown Chart:

        a. This takes a look at the team velocity.

        b. What the team thought,they would be able to complete

        c. And how they completed and how quickly they completed

        d. Powerful tool for KPI-- Key Performance Indicator measurement
